Add NFT proposal (#143)
aeternity/AEXs: AEXS/aex-nft.md

# AEX Non-Fungible Token Standard

```
AEX: TBD
Title: Non-Fungible Token Standard
Author: Arjan van Eersel <arjan@appiness.solutions> (@zkvonsnarkenstein)
License: ISC
Discussions-To: <URL>
Status: Draft
Type: Interface
Created: 2021-09-11
```

## Abstract

A standard implementation of non-fungible tokens for the Aeternity ecosystem. The design goal of the primary interface is to be as compatible with ERC-721 as possible, so that anyone who can work with ERC-721 can work with this interface. However, where Sophia offers a better way, performance and efficiency should prevail over compatibility.

There is no support for unsafe transactions. Therefore all transactions are ought to be safe.

## Motivation

The following standard describes standard interfaces for non-fungible tokens. The proposal contains a primary interface and secondary interfaces for optional functionality that not everyone might need. 

# Basic NFT

## Interface

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sophia
```

    entrypoint owner : (int) => option(address)
        
    stateful transfer : (from address, to address, token int, data option(string)) => unit

    stateful entrypoint approve : (address, int, bool) => unit

    stateful entrypoint approve_all : (address, bool) => unit

    entrypoint get_approved : (int) => option(address)

    entrypoint is_approved : (int, address) => bool

    entrypoint is_approved_for_all : (address, address) => bool
```

## Methods

### aexX_extensions\(\)

This function **returns** a hardcoded list of all implemented extensions on the deployed contract.
X is to be replaced with the approriate number allocated to this AEX proposal. At this stage the number is unknown.

```sophia
entrypoint aex9_extensions() : list(string)
```

### meta_info\(\)

Returns meta information associated with the token contract.

```sophia
entrypoint meta_info() : meta_info
```

| return | type |
| :--- | :--- |
| meta_info | meta_info |

### meta_data\(\)

Returns meta data associated with a token. The function is a part of the basic interface, because metadata can be set in the constructor, as well as by implementing the Mintable extention.

> ```entrypoint metadata(id int): option(metadata)```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sophia
entrypoint metadata(id int): option(metadata)
```
```

```

| parameter | type |
| :--- | :--- |
| operator | address |
| enabled | bool |

### get_approved\(\)

Returns the address approved to interact with the `token` or returns None if no approval has been set. Throws if `token` is an invalid token ID.

```sophia
entrypoint get_approved : (token int) => option(address)
``` 

| parameter | type |
| :--- | :--- |
| token | int |

| return | type |
| :--- | :--- |
| approved | option(address) |

### is_approved\(\)

Returns `true` if `approved` is approved to transact for `token`.

```sophia
entrypoint is_approved : (token int, approved address) => bool
``` 

| parameter | type |
| :--- | :--- |
| token | int |
| approved | address |

| return | type |
| :--- | :--- |
| approved | bool |
    
### is_approved_for_all\(\)

Returns `true` if `operator` is approved to commit transactions on behalf of `owner`.

Indicates wether an address is an authorized operator for another address.

```sophia
entrypoint is_approved_for_all : (owner address, operator address) => bool
``` 

| parameter | type |
| :--- | :--- |
| owner | address |
| approved | address |

| return | type |
| :--- | :--- |
| approved | bool |
     
## Events

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sophia
```

| :--- | :--- |
| token | int |

## Extension Swappable ("swappable")

### swap\(\)

This function burns the whole balance of the `Call.caller` and stores the same amount in the `swapped` map. 

```sophia
stateful entrypoint swap() : unit
```

| parameter | type |
| :--- | :--- |
| value | int |

| return | type |
| :--- | :--- |
| () | unit |

### check_swap\(\)

This function returns the amount of tokens that were burned trough `swap` for the provided account. 

```sophia
stateful entrypoint check_swap(account: address) : int
```

| parameter | type |
| :--- | :--- |
| account | address |

| return | type |
| :--- | :--- |
| int | int |

### swapped\(\)

This function returns all of the swapped tokens that are stored in contract state. 

```sophia
stateful entrypoint swapped() : map(address, int)
```

| return | type |
| :--- | :--- |
| swapped | map(address, int) |

## Events

**Swap** - MUST trigger when tokens are swapped using the `swap` function.

The swap event arguments should be as follows: `(account,  value)`

```sophia
Swap(address, int)
```

| parameter | type |
| :--- | :--- |
| account| address |
| value | int |

# Receiver contract interface

## NFTReceiver

> contract interface NFTReceiver = 
>     entrypoint on_nft_received : (address, address, int, option(string)) => unit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sophia
contract interface NFTReceiver = 
    entrypoint on_nft_received : (address, address, int, option(string)) => unit
```
```

### on_nft_received\(\)

Deals with receiving NFT tokens on behalf of a smart contract. Contracts receiving NFT tokens should implement this interface. Mint and transfer transactions will invoke the `on_nft_received` function.

> ```sofia

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sophia
```

# AEX Non-Fungible Token Standard

```
AEX: TBD
Title: Non-Fungible Token Standard
Author: Arjan van Eersel <arjan@appiness.solutions> (@zkvonsnarkenstein)
License: ISC
Discussions-To: <URL>
Status: Draft
Type: Interface
Created: 2021-09-11
```

## Abstract

A standard implementation of non-fungible tokens for the Aeternity ecosystem. The design goal of the primary interface is to be as compatible with ERC-721 as possible, so that anyone who can work with ERC-721 can work with this interface. However, where Sophia offers a better way, performance and efficiency should prevail over compatibility.

There is no support for unsafe transactions. Therefore all transactions are ought to be safe.

## Motivation

> The following standard describes standard interfaces for non-fungible tokens. The proposal contains a primary interface and secondary interfaces for optional functionality that not everyone might need. 

Reviewer 2: Small text edit : 
```suggestion
The following standard describes standard interfaces for non-fungible tokens. The proposal contains a primary and secondary interfaces for optional functionality that not everyone might need. 
```

    entrypoint owner : (int) => option(address)
        
    stateful transfer : (from address, to address, token int, data option(string)) => unit

    stateful entrypoint approve : (address, int, bool) => unit

    stateful entrypoint approve_all : (address, bool) => unit

    entrypoint get_approved : (int) => option(address)

    entrypoint is_approved : (int, address) => bool

    entrypoint is_approved_for_all : (address, address) => bool
```

## Methods

### aexX_extensions\(\)

This function **returns** a hardcoded list of all implemented extensions on the deployed contract.
X is to be replaced with the approriate number allocated to this AEX proposal. At this stage the number is unknown.

```sophia
entrypoint aex9_extensions() : list(string)
```

### meta_info\(\)

Returns meta information associated with the token contract.

```sophia
entrypoint meta_info() : meta_info
```

| return | type |
| :--- | :--- |
| meta_info | meta_info |

### meta_data\(\)

Returns meta data associated with a token. The function is a part of the basic interface, because metadata can be set in the constructor, as well as by implementing the Mintable extention.

> ```sophia
> entrypoint metadata(id int): option(metadata)
> 
> | parameter | type |

Reviewer 3: formatting was broken

```suggestion
```sophia
entrypoint metadata(id int): option(metadata)
```

| parameter | type |
```

```sophia
stateful entrypoint swap() : unit
```

| parameter | type |
| :--- | :--- |
| value | int |

| return | type |
| :--- | :--- |
| () | unit |

### check_swap\(\)

This function returns the amount of tokens that were burned trough `swap` for the provided account. 

```sophia
stateful entrypoint check_swap(account: address) : int
```

| parameter | type |
| :--- | :--- |
| account | address |

| return | type |
| :--- | :--- |
| int | int |

### swapped\(\)

This function returns all of the swapped tokens that are stored in contract state. 

```sophia
stateful entrypoint swapped() : map(address, int)
```

| return | type |
| :--- | :--- |
| swapped | map(address, int) |

## Events

**Swap** - MUST trigger when tokens are swapped using the `swap` function.

The swap event arguments should be as follows: `(account,  value)`

```sophia
Swap(address, int)
```

| parameter | type |
| :--- | :--- |
| account| address |
| value | int |

# Receiver contract interface

## NFTReceiver

```sophia
contract interface NFTReceiver = 
    entrypoint on_nft_received : (address, address, int, option(string)) => unit

### on_nft_received\(\)

> Deals with receiving NFT tokens on behalf of a smart contract. Contracts receiving NFT tokens should implement this interface. Mint and transfer transactions will invoke the `on_nft_received` function.

Reviewer 3: I also prefer `NFTs` over `NFT tokens` as the "T" already stands for token.

```suggestion
Deals with receiving NFTs on behalf of a contract. Contracts MUST implement this interface to be able to receive NFTs. Mint and transfer transactions will invoke the `on_nft_received` function.
```

> ```sophia
> contract interface NFTReceiver = 
>     entrypoint on_nft_received : (address, address, int, option(string)) => unit
> 
> ### on_nft_received\(\)
> 
> Deals with receiving NFT tokens on behalf of a smart contract. Contracts receiving NFT tokens should implement this interface. Mint and transfer transactions will invoke the `on_nft_received` function.
> 
> ```sophia
> entrypoint on_nft_received : (address, address, int, option(string)) => unit
> ```

Reviewer 3: I think something went wrong with the old suggestion. I also prefer `NFTs` over `NFT tokens` as the "T" already stands for token.

```suggestion
Deals with receiving NFTs on behalf of a smart contract. A smart contract MUST implement this interface to be able to receive NFTs. Mint and transfer transactions will invoke the `on_nft_received` function.

```sophia
contract interface NFTReceiver = 
    entrypoint on_nft_received : (address, address, int, option(string)) => unit
```
```
